jehosophat had riches and honor in
abundance and by marriage he allied
himself with a huh after some years he
went down to visit a herb in Samaria and
a hab killed sheep and oxen in abundance
for him and the people who were with him
and persuaded him to go up with him to
ramoth-gilead so ahab king of Israel
said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah will
you go with me against ramoth-gilead
I am as you are and my people as your
people we will be with you in the war
please inquire for the word of the Lord
today then the king of Israel gathered
the prophets together four hundred men
shall we go to war against ramoth-gilead
or shall I refrain go up for God will
deliver it into the Kings hand is there
not still a prophet of the Lord here
that we may inquire of him there is
still one man by whom we may inquire of
the Lord but I hate him because he never
prophesized good concerning me but
always evil he is my kia the son of
imlah
let not the king say such things then
the king of Israel called one of his
officers bring michaiah the son of imlah
quickly the king of Israel and
Jehoshaphat king of Judah clothed in
their robes sat each on his throne and
they sat at a threshing floor at the
entrance of the gate of Samaria and all
the prophets prophesied before
now Zedekiah the son of cainan had made
horns of iron for himself and he said
thus says the Lord with these you shall
Gore the Syrians until they are
destroyed and all the prophets
prophesied so go up to ramoth-gilead and
prosper for the Lord will deliver it
into the king's head then the messenger
who had gone to calm IKEA spoke to him
now listen the words of the prophets
with one Accord encouraged the king
therefore please let your word be like
the word of one of them and speak
encouragement as the Lord lives whatever
my God says that I will speak and he
came to the king and the king said to
him
Makia shall we go to war against
ramoth-gilead or shall I refrain
go and prosper and they shall be
delivered into your hand how many times
shall I make you swear that you tell me
nothing but the truth in the name of the
Lord
I saw all Israel scattered on the
mountains as sheep that have no shepherd
and the Lord said these have no master
let each return to his house in peace
and the king of Israel said to
Jehoshaphat did I not tell you he would
not prophesy good concerning me but evil
been my care said therefore hear the
word of the Lord I saw the Lord sitting
on his throne and all the host of heaven
standing on his right hand and his left
and the Lord said who will persuade a
hab king of Israel to go up that he may
fall at ramoth-gilead so one spoke in
this manner and another spoke in that
manner
then a spirit came forward and stood
before the Lord and said I will persuade
him the Lord said to him in what way so
he said I will go out and be a lying
spirit in the mouth of all his prophets
and the Lord said you shall persuade him
and also prevail go out and do so
therefore look the Lord has put a lying
spirit in the mouth of these prophets of
yours and the Lord has declared disaster
against you then Zedekiah the son of
caen Ana went near and struck Mike hair
on the cheek which way did the spirit
from the Lord go from me to speak to you
indeed you shall see on that day would
you go into an inner chamber to hide
then the king of Israel said take my Kia
and return him to Ana the governor of
the city and to joash the king's son and
say thus says the king put this fellow
in prison and feed him with bread of
affliction and water of affliction until
I return in peace if you ever return in
peace the Lord has not spoken by me take
heed all you people
[Music]
so the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat
the king of Judah went up to
ramoth-gilead
and the king of Israel said to
Jehoshaphat
I will disguise myself and go into
battle but you put on your robes so the
king of Israel disguised himself and
they went into battle now the king of
Syria had commanded the captains of the
chariots who were with him like that no
one small or great but only with the
king of Israel so it was when the
captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat
that they said it is the king of Israel
therefore they surrounded him to attack
but your hash event cried out and the
Lord helped him and God diverted them
from
or so it was when the captains of the
chariots saw that it was not the king of
Israel but they turned back from
pursuing now a certain man drew a bow at
random and struck the king of Israel
between the joints of his arm so he said
to the driver of his chariot turn around
and dig me out of backe for I am wounded
the battle increased that day and the
king of Israel propped himself up in his
chariot facing the Syrians until evening
and about the time of sunset he died